---
layout: post
title: Finally, after 3 hours, the Team Melbourne Rails Girls Summer of Code 2015 Blog is Up.
---

Finally, after 3 hours, the Team Melbourne Rails Girls Summer of Code 2015 Blog is Up"
description: "So the plan was a simple one - to create a blog so that Sarah and I could start making posts on what we were learning before and while rails girls summer of code 2015 runs.  The whole process took about 3 hours this morning.  The first was what platform do we use and would be free to maintain.  Looked at Wordpress on Heroku but for images this would require connection with Amazon AWS for media upload, the other one considered was github pages.  This seemed like a sensible choice since we're going to work on open source.  There are two types of github pages - users/organisations and projects.  I initially set up a project page but then found that it linked to my personal github page as a project (as it should) but that's not want we wanted, we wanted a blog for our team.  So I created an organisation account so that our url would be our team name (which looks like team_name.github.io as opposed to username.github.io/project_name).  Once that organisation account was set up, I followed github's instructions to set up a page from the terminal which led to a plain "Hello World" page which functioned but looked ugly.  Scrapped that and used github's automatic page generator with the minimal theme - that worked fine and was pretty but the problem was that it didn't have the blog scaffolding that we needed.  Scrapped that too.  Just deleted the whole repo and started again as my github commits were going bonkers.  In my searches, I found this fantastic post from [Jekyll](http://jekyllbootstrap.com/usage/jekyll-quick-start.html) that outlined how I could set up the github page directly from my terminal with the blog scaffolding.  It was fantastic!  It was easy to set up - I guess the only thing was their instructions still had .com, whereas now the pages on github end with a .io.  So... after 3 hours, here's the start of our blogging journey. (btw - images etc... will be uploaded and prettier formatting will happen once we get used to Jekyll).  

Update: it was actually four hours.  With YAML? (i think) the blog works differently.  You put your post content after the section enclosed by the three hypenated lines.  Was so confused because usually in a blog with a database, you would put the content within the description.

Oh well... you learn something new everyday and this static scaffolding system is quite interesting.